.. _changes_0_3:

Version 0.3
===========

Changelog
---------

Testing
~~~~~~~
- Pytest is used instead of nosetests. :issue:`321` by `Joan Massich`_.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Added a User Guide and extended some examples. :issue:`295` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fixed a bug in :func:`utils.check_ratio` such that an error is raised when
  the number of samples required is negative. :issue:`312` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- Fixed a bug in :class:`under_sampling.NearMiss` version 3. The
  indices returned were wrong. :issue:`312` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- Fixed bug for :class:`ensemble.BalanceCascade` and :class:`combine.SMOTEENN`
  and :class:`SMOTETomek`. :issue:`295` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.`

- Fixed bug for `check_ratio` to be able to pass arguments when `ratio` is a
  callable. :issue:`307` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.`

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Turn off steps in :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` using the `None`
  object. By `Christos Aridas`_.

- Add a fetching function :func:`datasets.fetch_datasets` in order to get some
  imbalanced datasets useful for benchmarking. :issue:`249` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

Enhancement
~~~~~~~~~~~

- All samplers accepts sparse matrices with defaulting on CSR type. :issue:`316` by
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- :func:`datasets.make_imbalance` take a ratio similarly to other samplers. It
  supports multiclass. :issue:`312` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- All the unit tests have been factorized and a :func:`utils.check_estimators`
  has been derived from scikit-learn. By `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- Script for automatic build of conda packages and uploading. :issue:`242` by
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_

- Remove seaborn dependence and improve the examples. :issue:`264` by `Guillaume
  Lemaitre`_.

- adapt all classes to multi-class resampling. :issue:`290` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_

API changes summary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `__init__` has been removed from the :class:`base.SamplerMixin` to
  create a real mixin class. :issue:`242` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- creation of a module :mod:`exceptions` to handle consistant raising of
  errors. :issue:`242` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- creation of a module ``utils.validation`` to make checking of
  recurrent patterns. :issue:`242` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- move the under-sampling methods in ``prototype_selection`` and
  ``prototype_generation`` submodule to make a clearer dinstinction. :issue:`277` by
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- change ``ratio`` such that it can adapt to multiple class problems. :issue:`290` by
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

Deprecation
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Deprecation of the use of ``min_c_`` in :func:`datasets.make_imbalance`. :issue:`312` by
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_

- Deprecation of the use of float in :func:`datasets.make_imbalance` for the
  ratio parameter. :issue:`290` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- deprecate the use of float as ratio in favor of dictionary, string, or
  callable. :issue:`290` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

