.. _changes_0_4:

Version 0.4 (under development)
===============================

Changelog
---------

API
...

- Replace the parameter ``ratio`` by ``sampling_strategy``. :issue:`411` by
  :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Enable to use a ``float`` with binary classification for
  ``sampling_strategy``. :issue:`411` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Enable to use a ``list`` for the cleaning methods to specify the class to
  sample. :issue:`411` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

New features
............

- Add a ``keras`` and ``tensorflow`` modules to create balanced mini-batches
  generator. :issue:`409` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

Enhancement
...........

- Add a documentation node to create a balanced random forest from a balanced
  bagging classifier. :issue:`372` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Document the metrics to evaluate models on imbalanced dataset. :issue:`367`
  by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Add support for one-vs-all encoded target to support keras. :issue:`409` by
  :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Adding specific class for borderline and SVM SMOTE using
  :class:`BorderlineSMOTE` and :class:`SVMSMOTE`.
  :issue:`440` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Allow :class:`imblearn.over_sampling.RandomOverSampler` can return indices
  using the attributes ``return_indices``.
  :issue:`439` by :user:`Hugo Gascon<hgascon>` and
  :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Allow :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.RandomUnderSampler` and
  :class:`imblearn.over_sampling.RandomOverSampler` to sample object array
  containing strings.
  :issue:`448` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

Bug fixes
.........

- Fix bug in :func:`metrics.classification_report_imbalanced` for which
  `y_pred` and `y_true` where inversed. :issue:`394` by :user:`Ole Silvig
  <klizter>.`

- Fix bug in ADASYN to consider only samples from the current class when
  generating new samples. :issue:`354` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre
  <glemaitre>`.

- Fix bug which allow for sorted behavior of ``sampling_strategy`` dictionary
  and thus to obtain a deterministic results when using the same random state.
  :issue:`447` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Force to clone scikit-learn estimator passed as attributes to samplers.
  :issue:`446` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Fix bug which was not preserving the dtype of X and y when generating
  samples.
  issue:`448` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

Maintenance
...........

- Remove deprecated parameters in 0.2 - :issue:`331` by :user:`Guillaume
  Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

Deprecation
...........

- Deprecate ``ratio`` in favor of ``sampling_strategy``. :issue:`411` by
  :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Deprecate the use of a ``dict`` for cleaning methods. a ``list`` should be
  used. :issue:`411` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- Deprecate ``random_state`` in :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.NearMiss`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.EditedNearestNeighbors`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.RepeatedEditedNearestNeighbors`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.AllKNN`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.NeighbourhoodCleaningRule`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.InstanceHardnessThreshold`,
  :class:`imblearn.under_sampling.CondensedNearestNeighbours`.

- Deprecate ``kind``, ``out_step``, ``svm_estimator``, ``m_neighbors`` in
  :class:`imblearn.over_sampling.SMOTE`. User should use
  :class:`imblearn.over_sampling.SVMSMOTE` and
  :class:`imblearn.over_sampling.BorderlineSMOTE`.
  :issue:`440` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.
